Updating CCF PDO/TP Documentation with details about recent API changes used to set PDO contract enclave attestation policy. (#475)
hyperledger-labs/private-data-objects: ledgers/ccf/README.md

make test
```

## CCF TP TEE attestation verification policy
We briefly describe the attestation verification policy implemented by CCF TP.

1. The TP contains a programmable flag that specifies whether the TP will check
for PDO contract enclaves' attestation when eservices attempt registering
PDO enclaves with TP. The CCF TP governance consortium
(see https://microsoft.github.io/CCF/release/4.x/governance/index.html)

> gets to set the flag after the TP is started. The flag can be set only once.

Reviewer: This flag is set only once per TP instance? This might be helpful to note.

Author: thank you,  yes, only once. again part of policy, must be covered as part of the documentation mentioned above.

2. If the flag described above is set, then it is expected that the CCF TP
governance consortium further programs the TP with expected values required to
verify enclave attestation reports. We note that PDO currently supports EPID
attestation verification, and while running in SGX HW mode, the eservice submits
IAS attestation report to the TP as part of contract enclave
registration with TP. To help the TP verify the IAS attestation report, the TP

> must be programmed with expected `MREnclave`, enclave `basename` and `ias_public_key`.

Reviewer: A couple points worth clarifying: Which of these expected values is unique per contract enclave? What is the actual policy, do these three values need to match for a given contract enclave? And what does the TP do if one/any of these values doesn't match the expectation?

Author: thank you for the questions. While these are important questions to document, these must be covered as part of PDO/documentation on "how PDO enables HW mode". The TP is one piece of the whole "PDO HW mode flow". A lot of these questions are coming up because we lack documentation on "how PDO supports EPID attestation". I suggest that an issue be created on this topic of the need for extra documentation. otherwise, these are out of scope for this PR.

Reviewer: My questions are related to EPID attestation verification, but more fundamentally about assumptions-- assumptions about how the system will be used and assumptions about what the reader does and doesn't need to know. This document is quite long and I think the audience is still mostly us, as in, we are documenting this to record our design decisions etc. Does a newcomer really need all of these details? 

Many assumptions also aren't documented explicitly, making this document pretty difficult to digest at times. I don't think addressing this should be part of this PR, but it would be good for us to take a step back, put ourselves in the position of a newcomer, and create separate "quickstart" documentation that covers only the most fundamental information and keep this as a longer "deep dive" document.

Further, the CCF TP governance consortium is permitted to change the

> values of these parameters, subject to TP consoritum governance rules.

Reviewer: Is this desirable behavior? This sentence seems to be implying that the governance consortium can change the expected MRENCLAVE, base name, or IAS key for an existing registered enclave. Why wouldn't a change in these values result in a new enclave registration? That is, a new MRENCLAVE, for all intents and purposes, represents a distinct enclave. Otherwise, wouldn't a verifier with an outdated policy fail upon such changes?

The TP provides two APIs `set_attestation_check_flag` and `set_expected_sgx_measurements`
to program the various values required to implement the above attestation

> verification policy.

Reviewer 2: This description is very good, and it says "to program the values".
Below, however, the description suggests that these APIs are already/only used in scripts so nobody should care about "programming" anything. So it is not clear who this description is for.

I think we have 3 levels of abstraction here:
1. the APIs themselves as implemented in the TP.
2. the convenience scripts for (just) calling these APIs from the client side (i.e., the python scripts)
3. additional convenience scripts which embed these calls at the right time during a deployment -- namely when the the CCF network starts up and when the eservice starts up

> 1. The first API `set_attestation_check_flag` is invoked as part of the TP start up
> scripts to specify whether PDO runs in SGX `HW` mode or SGX `SIM` mode.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. The first API `set_attestation_check_flag` accepts as input a boolean value (indicating whether to check attestation reports or not). It is meant to be called when the CCF network starts up. It _must_ be called before enclave registrations and before the second API and only once.

A convenience script `ccf_set_attestation_check_flag` is provided to invoke this API. The script requires a CCF endpoint and the `--attestation` or `--no-attestation` argument.

The script for starting the CCF network in PDO automates the call to the script above, setting the check-attestation-flag based on whether PDO runs in SGX `HW` mode or SGX `SIM` mode.
```

Author: IMHO, the details of out of place for the README.md, and best captured as part of the documentation on APIs. We will capture your comments in 264.

> 2. The second API `set_expected_sgx_measurements` is used whenever the
> `set_attestation_check_flag` specifies that PDO runs in SGX `HW` mode.
> In this case, as noted above the second API is used to the specify expected
> `MREnclave` value, and additionally `basename` and the `ias_public_key`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. The second API `set_expected_sgx_measurements` accepts as input the MREnclave, the basename and the IAS public key values. It is meant to be called by the first eservice who will register enclaves. If the previous API was called to require attestation checks, then this API _must_ be called; otherwise, it may, or may not, be called.

A convenience script `ccf_set_expected_sgx_measurements` is provided to invoke this API. The script requires a CCF endpoint and the `--mrenclave`, `--basename` and `--ias-public-key` arguments.

The script for starting services in PDO contains an optional argument (`--register`) which automates the call to the script above. This allows an eservice running in SGX `HW` mode to register/set the policy/arguments with the PDO TP.
```

Author: same as above.

Reviewer 3: and again. this is a good suggestion. could be moved later if necessary.

make test
```

## CCF TP TEE attestation verification policy

> CCF TP provides two APIs to be used by the CCF Governance consortium to register attestation verification policy that must be satisfied by PDO contract enclaves.

Author: thank you @marcelamelara  for the feedback. 1. TP full form has already been provided earlier in the same document. 2. I have added a link to the CCF Governance consortium document.

1. The first API `set_attestation_check_flag` is invoked as part of the TP start up scripts to specify whether PDO runs in SGX `HW` mode or SGX `SIM` mode. The flag can be set only once. There is no default value for the flag, and hence must be set explicitly before the TP can accept any `register_encalve` transactions.

> 2. The second API `set_expected_sgx_measurements` is used whenever the `set_attestation_check_flag` specifies that PDO runs in SGX `HW` mode. In this case, the second API is used to the specify expected `MREnclave` value, and additionally `basename` and the `ias_public_key`. Note that PDO currently supports SGX `HW mode` with EPID attestation. The expected SGX measurements can be updated via the second API, subject to voting rules of the consortium. 

Reviewer 2: I think this is mixing API description (which is the objective) with API usage. Separating the two would add clarity.
Namely:
- description: what it does; any default values; "must" or "can" be invoked; how, how many times, and when.
- usage: what scripts use the APIs, and when.

Reviewer 3: agreed. please separate.

and this is not nearly enough detail.

Author: The above documentation is supposed to cover "description"  part of what these APIs are. There is no intent to give details about "which scripts use these APIs". AFAIK, we do not have such documentation anywhere inside PDO. Also, the usage of these APIs is not fixed until the upcoming PR on how to use the second API.

Reviewer 3: we really need complete documentation for the pdo tp api. would you please create or find an issue that describes the work to be done and reference it here. after that... i'm fine with this.

Author: Thank you. I have updated Issue https://github.com/hyperledger-labs/private-data-objects/issues/264, and added scope for what will we cover to improve documentation (TP's APIs as well as Python scripts used for deployment/management). Will submit a separate PR to address 264.

Author: Thank you all the comments, I have updated the README as follows. First provide a description of the attestation verification policy implemented by the TP. Then provide a description of how the 2 APIs are used to set parameters required to implement the described policy. Hope this clarifies.

> 2. The second API `set_expected_sgx_measurements` is used whenever the `set_attestation_check_flag` specifies that PDO runs in SGX `HW` mode. In this case, the second API is used to the specify expected `MREnclave` value, and additionally `basename` and the `ias_public_key`. Note that PDO currently supports SGX `HW mode` with EPID attestation. The expected SGX measurements can be updated via the second API, subject to voting rules of the consortium. 

Reviewer 3: one more *REQUIREMENT*... line length 80.

Author: @cmickeyb thanks, pruned lines to length 80
